Hello there.
This is Lulu.
And welcome back.
In this lecture, I'm going to provide some guidance on how you can do this course.
It is a master course and hence is pretty long and can be overwhelming for some of you.
So I want to provide some guidance so that it can be approached in a more effective and systematic way.
Guidance will also be provided for new college students who are just getting started with Java.
So you can view the course as consisting of two parts, and the first part would be core Java and it's
also very in-depth.
So this would be around 50 to 60% of the course, and that would amount to around 40 to 45 hours of
the course, and that would be roughly around 17 to 18 sections.
And shortly we will look at that.
So this would cover most of these topics.
It would be the language basics, which is like the syntax, the for loops and so on.
And we will also look at the inheritance and polymorphism concepts, and we will also learn how to use
Eclipse in a professional way.
We will study about the Java virtual machine, then the exceptions input output, which is about how
to read data from files and how you can write data to files.
Then we will look at the Java's powerful inbuilt data structures.
So these come with the Java library itself.
Then we will also explore this concept called us generics and we will look at the basics.
And in the second part of the course we will do the remaining part of the generics.
Once you have mastered this, only then move on to the second part.
Now, after finishing all of this, if you are not feeling confident, then I would suggest take some
time off and review the sections once again, whichever you are feeling uncomfortable with and once
you feel confident and comfortable, then move on to the second part, which is the advanced Java.
And that would include some of these concepts like advanced generics.
So we will continue learning about generics.
We will look at Multithreading, which is very important then databases.
And specifically we will cover SQL and also the MySQL database and we will see how we can interact with
databases from our Java programs.
We also look at the functional style programming, which is about concepts like lambdas and streams.
And finally, the interesting part we will look at an introduction to Java E, which helps in developing
the Web applications using Java stack.
So we're not going to get into the in-depth of Java EE because this course is not about Java EE.
So we will explore some core web technologies like Sublets and JSP, and we will also look at few other
topics.
And both these parts have these things in common, which is about best practices and professional design
rules that you need to use when writing your programs.
And these are very important for writing well-designed code.
And we also have the project which will be in both the parts.
So we will start off in the first part and we will extend it into the second part.
And finally it will the project will end at the end of the course.
So if you are a Java aspirant, if you want to become a Java professional, you have to do this entire
course.
If you are a college student, then I think this will suffice.
You can just stick with Core Java, which is the first part.
And within Core Java, I think JVM internals and the project can be optional.
So it is up to you, but you also have to learn a little bit about Multithreading.
So the Multithreading basics have to be covered and I will show you that even between JVM, I will show
you the part that you can learn.
There is one or two lectures and you can learn about those concepts.
Now this is for only first or second year undergrad students, and you can do it according to your curriculum.
But at some point before you graduate, like third or final year, I would strongly suggest to complete
the rest of the course too.
That is the advanced part, including the project which you should implement.
That way you would have an end to end experience in building a Java based web application, and that
can be helpful with your campus interviews.
And you would also do well once you are hired, especially having learned the best practices.
So if you want to apply for Java jobs, you should complete the course.
Also, if you're currently a Java professional and not comfortable with any of the topics like say functional
style programming or multithreading, then you can just do the specific sections as they are very in-depth.
Now let's head over to the course website and look at the course structure.
So let's just go ahead and look at the first and the second part, the code and the Advanced Java.
So this is the course content and the course is divided into sections.
A section is like a chapter and it has some lectures and most of them are video lectures.
So like I said, the first 17 or 18 sections would comprise the core Java part.
So let me just scroll down here.
So these are all the different sections.
You know the project GBM internals exceptions, input output collections.
And I said that the first part would end here in generics.
And within generics you can do the first five lectures up until this point, project extension and replacing
RS with less.
And the second part of generics would be the remaining lectures, and the remaining part of the course
will be part of the advanced Java.
Now, if you are a college students, you have to do till here.
And like I said earlier, you would also do multi threading a little bit of multi threading because
it might be important for you to study this.
So within Multi-threading it is this chapter called concurrency.
Do the first six lectures.
The last lecture would be synchronization and demo.
So I want you also to do this so you can take a look at your curriculum and learn whatever concepts
you can learn from this particular course.
Now, I said you can also, if you're a college student, you can skip the project.
So the project is here now.
This is a dedicated Chapter four project and it starts off here, but the project is extended as we
progress through the course and as we learn new concepts, we do extend this project in the different
sections of this course.
So if you wish to, you can skip, or you can also do this course or do this particular project.
I also said that you might want to skip maintenance, but I would recommend doing that also.
But if you wish to skip.
So this is for the college students at least do this particular course called stuck.
This particular lecture called a stack.
So that's what it is for college students.
I hope it has given you more clarity.
So it would be roughly around 40 hours of the course for you, which might take a couple of months to
finish.
Now let's explore section.
So each section here.
So before exploring the section, let me just let's look at these different sections.
Here's an introduction.
And here we have a high level overview of what is in the Section two.
In this particular section, we will write our first Java program and we will compile and execute it
and we will also install Java within this particular section.
And then after that, all of these chapters like the Section three, is about classes, objects and
their members.
So all of these chapters can be considered the initial chapters three, four, five can be considered
as five and also seven as the language basic series.
So those are really, really fundamental about the Java language syntax and all.
Then here we will learn about using Eclipse and we will learn how to use it in a professional way.
So before the section we will use a normal text editor like Notepad Plus Plus in case of Windows and
we will run our commands from the command line.
But after that we will switch over to Eclipse and this is the right time to switch to Eclipse because
Eclipse hides a lot of details.
For instance, the compilation process is done automatically, but as a beginner you need to know how
to compile from the how to compile your programs and run your programs from the command line.
And for that reason, we, you know, we use a normal editor and we use a command prompt in order to
compile and run our programs.
So later, I will also talk about what compilation is in one of the subsequent sections.
So here we will learn about Eclipse.
And even if you are a college student, I would like you to do this particular section.
It's just one hour and learn how to use Eclipse in an effective way.
Then after that, here we deal with inheritance and polymorphism.
So these are the object oriented programming concepts.
And before doing that, we will do a case study of a real world social bookmarking application that
my company is developing.
And we will look at the different requirements and the different features that are part of those requirements.
And in order to implement those features, we need to learn all of these concepts.
So that's how we are going to learn these concepts.
So instead of using some pie examples, we are going to use a real world case study and here we will
learn how to debug our programs and also unit test the program.
And the project starts here and the project is actually an implementation of this case study itself,
typically in many courses if there is a project.
So they will have some project, but that's completely independent of what you are learning.
But in this case we implement what we are learning here.
The learning is based on this case study, as I just mentioned.
So we implement that case study.
So there is no context switch in that sense.
Then these are all the rest of the chapters and here is the input output chapter where we read from
files.
So here also the project is extended.
You know, we have this thing called as project extension.
So the project is gradually extended.
And here when we learn about databases, we further extend the project to use a database.
And finally we also web enable it when we learn about the Java technology.
So that's right at the very end.
So if you are a Java aspirant, you have to learn everything.
Now let's explore one of these.
So every chapter starts with most of the chapters.
Start with an introduction where we talk about the agenda for the chapter.
Most of them also end with a conclusion.
And in the conclusion we summarize the entire of what we have learned and every section here.
There are also quizzes.
Here is one quiz in this section.
Mostly you will see them at the end of the chapter, but sometimes they are also there in the middle
of the chapter.
If the chapter is really huge and there are also coding exercises and we will also look at that.
Now some of the lectures have resources, so if there are any demos in that lecture.
So most of the lectures have demos.
So if there is a demo, then the program that we have implemented will be available.
So if you see this resources, it means that there is a demo.
So.
For instance, this one.
So it has this file, Java file, so you can download it, but I would recommend actually implementing
the demo when it is being demonstrated.
And this particular lecture also has the speed of documents.
Sometimes we also have some supplementary notes, some additional notes which you can download and read.
So that's that the resource says.
Few sections have assignments, but most sections have.
Our chapters have coding exercises.
And here in this particular section, we start learning about the design rules.
Design principles.
And in this particular Section seven, we also learn about some coding conventions.
So that is something that you need to learn.
Even if you are a college student, you need to use good coding conventions.
Now here in exceptions, let me show you something.
So I said that there are some design principles also that we are learning from the effective Java book,
but we will learn it.
We're using our own examples and we implement them using our own programs.
So for some of them we have these things called as best practices.
Those are some best practices that you need to follow.
Now let me head over to this particular section and let me click on one of the lectures here.
This one.
It's right here.
So let me just play it.
Hi there.
This is Lou and welcome back.
Now, here there is this thing called a playback rate.
So here you can adjust the speed of my talk for by default it is one X, so that's the default speed.
If you find my talking speed to be slow, then you can click on this 11. 25x, so it will be slightly
faster.
So how does this collect the collection?
Within the stream operations class.
And there is also 0.75.
In case if you are finding one X to be to be fast, then you can try 0.75.
But I think it is too slow.
So these are the three options that you can use.
And here.
There.
There's this thing called us notes.
So if you want to take any notes while viewing the lecture, you can click on this one and you can take
notes here.
In case if you have any questions, go into this Q&A tab here.
And you can you know, you can check if there are any questions, similar questions that have been asked.
So click on these are all the questions.
Just click on Current Lecture and it shows you the questions that that have been asked in this particular
lecture.
So see if those questions help you.
If not, then you can click on a question and you can ask a new question, and I will respond back within
a day.
Now here, when we click on all lectures, it's going to show us a question from all of the lectures.
And the most recent ones will be at the top.
If you want to answer some of the questions, feel free to answer those questions because you might
have learned and you might be familiar with that question.
So do that and that will really help you to learn also, because in order to answer that question,
you might actually refer to your notes and you might answer it.
So that can be very helpful.
So that's about the questions and there are also coding exercises.
Now, let me just show you one coding exercise.
So here there is one coding exercise.
It has a short description here.
What the coding exercise is about.
And you also have a place for you to submit your solution.
In this case, you need to provide two programs and once you hit check solution, there are scripts
that have been installed here.
So they will test your solution for correctness.
And if they are correct, it will say that it is a success and if it is not correct, then it says that
your solution has not passed the test.
And in that scenario, you can it might also give you some hint where it went wrong.
Then you can try to fix it and then resubmit it.
Now, if you have tried hard enough, long enough, and if you are unable to get it through, then you
can send me your solution.
Do not post in the Q&A section because Q&A section is for everyone.
So other students are also trying to solve the problem and hence it's not a good idea to post it here.
So if you want to share your solution, you can private message me and the way you can do it is click
on this overview tab and just go down here.
Click on See More and you will find.
My profile here.
Here, just click on this and it will open a page such as this one, and you can click on Send Message
and you can send me a private message.
And once I respond back, you also get an email and you can click on that or you can click on.
If you click on that link.
You can go into messages and view my private messages that I have sent.
So that's further sharing your solution.
It has to be only via the private message.
Now let's just head over to the slides.
I just want to give some tips.
Okay.
Let's look at some very important general suggestions.
The first one is the most important one.
So make sure that you are concentrating really hard because lot of details are packed into every single
lecture.
So if you miss your concentration, then you're going to miss something.
That is for sure.
There is no fluff at all in any of the lectures, so please concentrate.
Well, do not rush through any of the lectures.
Do them systematically and if needed, take notes.
And if you're not clear about something, then just review the lecture one or more times and that should
be helpful.
And if you still have any questions, then do post your questions, make sure to implement the demos.
So this is a programming course, so you need to program, so implement everything that is being demonstrated.
Similarly, do all of the exercises put in the effort to solve those exercises, and that will give
you a lot of confidence because they validate what you have learned.
So that's very important.
And this is one book, this is Effective Java by Joshua Bloch.
So this is an intermediate level ebook or advanced level ebook.
So it doesn't teach any core concepts.
But we do cover some of these best practices that are discussed in this book, and we do it in our own
way.
You don't have to buy this book.
Everything is explained clearly.
Maybe later on in the second half of the course or once you are through the course, this is something
that you would want to buy.
And these are two other books for your reference head.
First, Java is a very good book, but it's only an introductory book.
It teaches you the basics using nice graphics, so that is something that you can purchase, but it
is not required at all.
Harnessing Java by Kishori Sharan is also an introductory book.
It covers all of the details.
It's not just the introduction.
Again, it is only a reference.
We don't need these books just in case.
If something is not clear and if you want something handy, then you can perhaps refer to this books.
And that's the reason I have included them here.
Other than that, everything is covered in this course from the basics to the very advanced.
And you know, at some point, please do consider leaving a rating or review and that will help me and
also other students and feel free to provide any feedback for me.
That's it.
Thank you.
And I'll see you in the next lecture.